docs/source/reference/recipe-format.rst, before:

Recipe Format
=============

The recipes are text files written in `YAML 1.2`_, a configuration language that
is widely used. They are saved with the ``.yaml`` extension. Below is a
commented example recipe:

.. code-block:: yaml

    title: Name of recipe
    description: |
      Extended description that can
      go across multiple lines.

    steps:
      # Specify the operator to run in each step.
      - operator: read.read_cubes

    - operator: filters.filter_cubes
      # Can specify extra keyword arguments as sub-maps.
      constraint:
        # Can nest in another operator to use its output as an argument.
        operator: generate_constraints.generate_stash_constraints
        # Input implicitly taken from the previous step, but can be overridden
        # by using the appropriate keyword argument.
        stash: m01s03i236

    - operator: write.write_cube_to_nc
      # Specify the name of the argument, and its value.
      filename: processed_data.nc

The title and description keys provide a human readable description of what the
recipe does. The title is also used to derive the ID of the running recipe, used
when running the recipe in a workflow.

The steps keys specifies a list of processing steps. The steps are run from top
to bottom, with each step specifying an operator to run, and optionally any
additional inputs to that operator. A step is denoted by a ``-`` under the
``steps:`` key. The operators are specified on the operator key. Its value
should be a string of the form ``file.function``. For additional inputs the key
should be the name of the argument.

The below code block shows how you can nest operators multiple levels deep. For
details of the specific operators involved, and the arguments that can take, see
the :doc:`/reference/operators` page.

.. code-block:: yaml

  - operator: filters.filter_cubes
    constraint:
      operator: constraints.combine_constraints
      constraint:
        operator: constraints.generate_stash_constraint
        stash: m01s03i236
      cell_methods_constraint:
        operator: constraints.generate_cell_methods_constraint
        cell_methods: []

.. _YAML 1.2: https://yaml.org/

Commit message:

Add some documentation on post-steps recipe key

docs/source/reference/recipe-format.rst, after:

Recipe Format
=============

The recipes are text files written in `YAML 1.2`_, a configuration language that
is widely used. They are saved with the ``.yaml`` extension. Below is a
commented example recipe:

.. code-block:: yaml

    title: Name of recipe
    description: |
      Extended description that can
      go across multiple lines.

    steps:
      # Specify the operator to run in each step.
      - operator: read.read_cubes

      - operator: filters.filter_cubes
        # Can specify extra keyword arguments as sub-maps.
        constraint:
          # Can nest in another operator to use its output as an argument.
          operator: generate_constraints.generate_stash_constraints
          # Input implicitly taken from the previous step, but can be overridden
          # by using the appropriate keyword argument.
          stash: m01s03i236

      - operator: write.write_cube_to_nc
        # Specify the name of the argument, and its value.
        filename: intermediate/processed_data
        # intermediate is a slightly special folder for partially processed data
        # that needs collating.

    # Steps to collate processed data into output.
    post-steps:
      - operator: read.read_cube
        filename: intermediate/*.nc

      # Save a sequence of plots, one per time.
      - operator: plot.plot_spatial_plot

      # Save a single cube with all the processed data.
      - operator: write.write_cube_to_nc

The title and description keys provide a human readable description of what the
recipe does. The title is also used to derive the ID of the running recipe, used
when running the recipe in a workflow.

The steps keys specifies a list of processing steps. The steps are run from top
to bottom, with each step specifying an operator to run, and optionally any
additional inputs to that operator. A step is denoted by a ``-`` under the
``steps:`` key. The operators are specified on the operator key. Its value
should be a string of the form ``module.function``. For additional inputs the key
should be the name of the argument.

The ``post-steps:`` key is used for collating together the output of the
processing steps to produce the final output. This allows for the expensive
processing to be parallelised over many compute nodes, with just the final
visualisation of the data done in a single job to ensure it has all of the data.

The below code block shows how you can nest operators multiple levels deep. For
details of the specific operators involved, and the arguments that can take, see
the :doc:`/reference/operators` page.

.. code-block:: yaml

  - operator: filters.filter_cubes
    constraint:
      operator: constraints.combine_constraints
      constraint:
        operator: constraints.generate_stash_constraint
        stash: m01s03i236
      cell_methods_constraint:
        operator: constraints.generate_cell_methods_constraint
        cell_methods: []

.. _YAML 1.2: https://yaml.org/
