docs/source/usage/index.rst, before:

Usage Guide
===========

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    operator-recipes

Installation
------------

The recommended way to install CSET is via conda. It is packaged on
`conda-forge`_ and can be installed with a simple ``conda install -c conda-forge
cset``.

If you instead want to run a development version that has yet to be released,
the easiest way is via an editable install. You can learn how to do this in the
:ref:`working_practices_getting_started` section of the
:doc:`../working-practices/index`.

.. _conda-forge: https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/cset

Usage
-----

cset bake
~~~~~~~~~

Used to run a recipe on some data. The recipe, input file, and a path to an
output file must be provided. Additional help is available with the ``--help``
option. The recipe format is described on the :doc:`operator-recipes` page. If
recipe_file is omitted from the command line, the recipe will be read from the
``CSET_RECIPE`` environment variable instead. This environment variable should
contain the YAML text that you want executed.

.. code-block:: text

    usage: cset bake [-h] input_file output_file [recipe_file]

    positional arguments:
    input_file   input file to read
    output_file  output file to write
    recipe_file  recipe file to execute. If omitted reads from CSET_RECIPE environment variable

    options:
    -h, --help   show this help message and exit

cset cookbook
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Saves the included recipe files to a local directory. This allows access to
pre-created recipes for many common tasks. See [LINK TO DOCUMENTATION PAGE ON
RECIPES] for descriptions of available recipes.

.. code-block:: text

    usage: cset cookbook [-h] [recipe_dir]

    positional arguments:
    recipe_dir  directory to save recipes. If omitted uses $PWD/recipes

    options:
    -h, --help  show this help message and exit

cset graph
~~~~~~~~~~

Visualise a recipe. This renders a graph representing the recipe, and saves it
to a temporary file, which is automatically opened. If the ``--detailed`` option
is specified it also includes operator arguments in the output, so you can see
exactly what ran.

.. image:: recipe-graph.svg
    :alt: A graph visualising a recipe. The nodes are linked with directed edges showing the flow of data.

.. code-block:: text

    usage: cset graph [-h] [-o [OUTPUT_PATH]] [-d] [recipe]

    positional arguments:
    recipe                recipe file to read. If omitted reads from CSET_RECIPE environment variable

    options:
    -h, --help            show this help message and exit
    -o [OUTPUT_PATH], --output_path [OUTPUT_PATH]
                            file in which to save the graph image, otherwise uses a temporary file. When specified the file is not automatically opened
    -d, --detailed        include operator arguments in output

Commit message:

Reorganise documentation to better separate different kinds
The documentation has been reorganised to better allow distinct
kinds of documentation, with distinct audiences, to be written.

This involves splitting the documentation into several distinct
sections based on how it should be written. This is Tutorials,
How-to guides, References, and Explanations.

 * Tutorials are for people learning their way around.
 * How-to guides answer the "how?".
 * References answer the "what?".
 * Explanations answer the "why?".

This is a commonly used, and well regarded documentations style used
by projects such as NumPy.

More information can be found here: https://documentation.divio.com/

docs/source/usage/index.rst, after:

How-to Guides
=============

This section contains guides on how to do specific things with CSET.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    operator-recipes

Installation
------------

The recommended way to install CSET is via conda. It is packaged on
`conda-forge`_ and can be installed with a simple ``conda install -c conda-forge
cset``.

If you instead want to run a development version that has yet to be released,
the easiest way is via an editable install. You can learn how to do this in the
:ref:`working_practices_getting_started` section of the
:doc:`/contributing/index`.

.. _conda-forge: https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/cset

Usage
-----

cset bake
~~~~~~~~~

Used to run a recipe on some data. The recipe, input file, and a path to an
output file must be provided. Additional help is available with the ``--help``
option. The recipe format is described on the :doc:`operator-recipes` page. If
recipe_file is omitted from the command line, the recipe will be read from the
``CSET_RECIPE`` environment variable instead. This environment variable should
contain the YAML text that you want executed.

.. code-block:: text

    usage: cset bake [-h] input_file output_file [recipe_file]

    positional arguments:
    input_file   input file to read
    output_file  output file to write
    recipe_file  recipe file to execute. If omitted reads from CSET_RECIPE environment variable

    options:
    -h, --help   show this help message and exit

cset cookbook
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Saves the included recipe files to a local directory. This allows access to
pre-created recipes for many common tasks. See [LINK TO DOCUMENTATION PAGE ON
RECIPES] for descriptions of available recipes.

.. code-block:: text

    usage: cset cookbook [-h] [recipe_dir]

    positional arguments:
    recipe_dir  directory to save recipes. If omitted uses $PWD/recipes

    options:
    -h, --help  show this help message and exit

cset graph
~~~~~~~~~~

Visualise a recipe. This renders a graph representing the recipe, and saves it
to a temporary file, which is automatically opened. If the ``--detailed`` option
is specified it also includes operator arguments in the output, so you can see
exactly what ran.

.. image:: recipe-graph.svg
    :alt: A graph visualising a recipe. The nodes are linked with directed edges showing the flow of data.

.. code-block:: text

    usage: cset graph [-h] [-o [OUTPUT_PATH]] [-d] [recipe]

    positional arguments:
    recipe                recipe file to read. If omitted reads from CSET_RECIPE environment variable

    options:
    -h, --help            show this help message and exit
    -o [OUTPUT_PATH], --output_path [OUTPUT_PATH]
                            file in which to save the graph image, otherwise uses a temporary file. When specified the file is not automatically opened
    -d, --detailed        include operator arguments in output
