docs/source/index.rst, before:

CSET Documentation
==================

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   self
   getting-started/index
   usage/index
   reference/index
   background/index
   contributing/index
   GitHub <https://github.com/MetOffice/CSET>

:abbr:`CSET (Convective and turbulence scale Evaluation and verification Tool)`
is a toolkit for evaluation, verification and investigation of convective- and
turbulence-scale numerical models for weather and climate applications, cutting
across time and space scales.

It aligns parametrisation development, diagnostic development and evaluation
research, feeding back into Regional Atmosphere and Land (RAL) model development
across the Met Office and UM partnership.

Apart from verification capabilities it provides a centralised source of tools
to aid process-oriented evaluation for UM and LFRic models, supporting both
deterministic and ensembles.

For model developers CSET offers well documented and peer reviewed evaluation
tools and flexible evaluation code that can adapt to users needs.

For diagnostic developers it provides a legacy for diagnostics and observations.
It is build on a modern software stack using python 3 and METplus. Clear
documentation, working practices, automatic testing, and open access promote
contributions.

For more information on how to use it and get involved as a developer, see
:doc:`/background/why-cset`

Use the side bar to the left to access other pages of the documentation.

Useful Links
------------

`Source Code`_ | `Issue Tracker`_ | Releases_

.. _Source Code: https://github.com/MetOffice/CSET
.. _Issue Tracker: https://github.com/MetOffice/CSET/issues
.. _Releases: https://github.com/MetOffice/CSET/releases

Licence
-------

Copyright © 2022-2023 Met Office and contributors. CSET is distributed under the
`Apache 2.0 License`_, in the hope that it will be useful.

.. _Apache 2.0 License: https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Commit message:

Link to getting started from index page

docs/source/index.rst, after:

CSET Documentation
==================

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   self
   getting-started/index
   usage/index
   reference/index
   background/index
   contributing/index
   GitHub <https://github.com/MetOffice/CSET>

:abbr:`CSET (Convective and turbulence scale Evaluation and verification Tool)`
is a toolkit for evaluation, verification and investigation of convective- and
turbulence-scale numerical models for weather and climate applications, cutting
across time and space scales.

It aligns parametrisation development, diagnostic development and evaluation
research, feeding back into Regional Atmosphere and Land (RAL) model development
across the Met Office and UM partnership.

Apart from verification capabilities it provides a centralised source of tools
to aid process-oriented evaluation for UM and LFRic models, supporting both
deterministic and ensembles.

For model developers CSET offers well documented and peer reviewed evaluation
tools and flexible evaluation code that can adapt to users needs.

For diagnostic developers it provides a legacy for diagnostics and observations.
It is build on a modern software stack using python 3 and METplus. Clear
documentation, working practices, automatic testing, and open access promote
contributions.

For information on how to use CSET, see :doc:`getting-started/index`.

For information on getting involved as a developer, see
:doc:`contributing/index`.

Use the side bar to the left to access other pages of the documentation.

Useful Links
------------

`Source Code`_ | `Issue Tracker`_ | Releases_

.. _Source Code: https://github.com/MetOffice/CSET
.. _Issue Tracker: https://github.com/MetOffice/CSET/issues
.. _Releases: https://github.com/MetOffice/CSET/releases

Licence
-------

Copyright © 2022-2023 Met Office and contributors. CSET is distributed under the
`Apache 2.0 License`_, in the hope that it will be useful.

.. _Apache 2.0 License: https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
